[MXNET-1187] Added Java SSD Inference Tutorial for website (#13201)
apache/incubator-mxnet: docs/tutorials/java/ssd_inference.md

# Multi Object Detection using pre-trained SSD Model via Java Inference APIs

> This tutorial shows how to use MXNet Java Inference APIs to run inference on a pre-trained Single Shot Detection (SSD) Model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial shows how to use MXNet Java Inference APIs to run inference on a pre-trained Single Shot Detector (SSD) Model.
```

Author: Done.

> The SSD model is trained on the Pascal VOC 2012 dataset. The network is a SSD model built on Resnet50 as base network to extract image features. The model is trained to detect the following entities (classes): ['aeroplane', 'bicycle', 'bird', 'boat', 'bottle', 'bus', 'car', 'cat', 'chair', 'cow', 'diningtable', 'dog', 'horse', 'motorbike', 'person', 'pottedplant', 'sheep', 'sofa', 'train', 'tvmonitor']. For more details about the model, you can refer to the [MXNet SSD example](https://github.com/apache/incubator-mxnet/tree/master/example/ssd).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SSD model is trained on the Pascal VOC 2012 dataset. The network is a SSD model built on ResNet50 as the base network to extract image features. The model is trained to detect the following entities (classes): ['aeroplane', 'bicycle', 'bird', 'boat', 'bottle', 'bus', 'car', 'cat', 'chair', 'cow', 'diningtable', 'dog', 'horse', 'motorbike', 'person', 'pottedplant', 'sheep', 'sofa', 'train', 'tvmonitor']. For more details about the model, you can refer to the [MXNet SSD example](https://github.com/apache/incubator-mxnet/tree/master/example/ssd).
```

Author: Done.

> ## Pre-Requisites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Prerequisites
```

Author: Done.

> To complete this tutorial, we need : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To complete this tutorial, you need the following: 
```

Author: Done.

> * [MXNet Java Setup on IntelliJ IDEA](/java/mxnet_java_on_intellij.html) 

Reviewer: Can't you do this tutorial using another IDE?

Author: I have provided the users a way to run it using command line as well at the bottom of this tutorial. 
Given that the setup instructions for Scala are also based on IntelliJ, I wanted to follow the same pattern for consistency. 
There's nothing stopping a user from using any other compatible IDE other than IntelliJ.

Reviewer 2: I suggest to mark it optional.

Author: Done.

* [wget](https://www.gnu.org/software/wget/) To download model artifacts 
* SSD Model artifacts
    * Use the following script to get the SSD Model files : 
    ```bash
      data_path=/tmp/resnet50_ssd
      mkdir -p "$data_path"
      wget https://s3.amazonaws.com/model-server/models/resnet50_ssd/resnet50_ssd_model-symbol.json -P $data_path
      wget https://s3.amazonaws.com/model-server/models/resnet50_ssd/resnet50_ssd_model-0000.params -P $data_path
      wget https://s3.amazonaws.com/model-server/models/resnet50_ssd/synset.txt -P $data_path
    ```

> * Dataset  : A few sample images to run inference on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Test images: A few sample images to run inference on.
```

Author: Done.

>     * Use the following script to download sample images : 

Reviewer 3: Are we providing these scripts on the example folders? Copy pasting gets tiring and is error prone, meaning docs can get outdated and not run anymore, is easier to keep scripts current.

Author: Yes they are in the examples folder already. 
https://github.com/apache/incubator-mxnet/blob/master/scala-package/examples/scripts/infer/objectdetector/get_ssd_data.sh

Author: It's a hands-on tutorial, where we want users to follow the commands on the same page. 
While you have a valid point of re-directing to the link, but it's not a great user experience to hop urls while going though a hands on session. 
Also, the commands are not verbatim pasted. Only a relevant subset of wget commands are pasted here in the tutorial.

Reviewer 3: ok, thanks for the followup.

>     ```bash

Reviewer: Please untab this code block. It can cause rendering issues when it is tabbed in.

Author: Done.

      image_path=/tmp/resnet50_ssd/images
      mkdir -p "$image_path"
      cd $image_path
      wget https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/3307514/20012567/cbb60336-a27d-11e6-93ff-cbc3f09f5c9e.jpg -O dog.jpg
      wget https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/3307514/20012563/cbb41382-a27d-11e6-92a9-18dab4fd1ad3.jpg -O person.jpg
    ``` 

Alternately, you can get the entire SSD Model artifacts + images in one single script from the MXNet Repository by running [get_ssd_data.sh script](https://github.com/apache/incubator-mxnet/blob/master/scala-package/examples/scripts/infer/objectdetector/get_ssd_data.sh)  
     
## Time to code! 

> 1. Following the [MXNet Java Setup on IntelliJ IDEA](/java/mxnet_java_on_intellij.html) tutorial, in the same project `JavaMXNet`, create a new empty class called : `ObjectDetectionTutorial.java`. 

Reviewer: Can someone follow along with their IDE of choice instead?

Author: Goes with the same point that I made above about using another IDE.

Author: Done.

> 2. In the `main` function of `ObjectDetectionTutorial.java` in let's define the downloaded model path and the image data paths in code. This is the same path where we downloaded the model artifacts and images as was shown above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the `main` function of `ObjectDetectionTutorial.java` define the downloaded model path and the image data paths. This is the same path where we downloaded the model artifacts and images in a previous step.
```

Author: Done.

>     ```java

Reviewer: Please untab code block.

Author: Done.

        String modelPathPrefix = "/tmp/resnet50_ssd/resnet50_ssd_model";
        String inputImagePath = "/tmp/resnet50_ssd/images/dog.jpg";
    ```
3. We can run the inference code in this example on either CPU or GPU (if you have a GPU backed machine) by choosing the appropriate context.
    

>     ```java

Reviewer: Untab

        
        List<Context> context = getContext();
        ...
        
        private static List<Context> getContext() {
        List<Context> ctx = new ArrayList<>();
        ctx.add(Context.cpu()); // Choosing CPU Context here

        return ctx;
    }
    ``` 
4. To provide an input to the model, define the input shape to the model and the Input Data Descriptor (DataDesc) as shown below : 

>     ```java

Reviewer: Untab.... all of them :)

Author: Done :)

            }
        
            private static void printOutput(List<List<ObjectDetectorOutput>> output, Shape inputShape) {
        
                StringBuilder outputStr = new StringBuilder();
        
                int width = inputShape.get(3);
                int height = inputShape.get(2);
        
                for (List<ObjectDetectorOutput> ele : output) {
                    for (ObjectDetectorOutput i : ele) {
                        outputStr.append("Class: " + i.getClassName() + "\n");
                        outputStr.append("Probabilties: " + i.getProbability() + "\n");
        
                        List<Float> coord = Arrays.asList(i.getXMin() * width,
                                i.getXMax() * height, i.getYMin() * width, i.getYMax() * height);
                        StringBuilder sb = new StringBuilder();
                        for (float c: coord) {
                            sb.append(", ").append(c);
                        }
                        outputStr.append("Coord:" + sb.substring(2)+ "\n");
                    }
                }
                System.out.println(outputStr);
        
            }
        }
    ```

> 7. To compile and run this code, change directories to this project's root folder then run the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. To compile and run this code, change directories to this project's root folder, then run the following:
```

Author: Done.

    ```bash
       mvn clean install dependency:copy-dependencies
    ```
    The build generates a new jar file in the `target` folder called `javaMXNet-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar`.

    To run the ObjectDetectionTutorial.java use the following command from the project's root folder.
    ```bash
       java -cp target/javaMXNet-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar:target/dependency/* mxnet.ObjectDetectionTutorial
    ```
    

>     You should see this output being generated for the dog image that we used: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You should see a similar output being generated for the dog image that we used: 
```

Author: Done.

    ```bash
       Class: car
       Probabilties: 0.99847263
       Coord:312.21335, 72.02908, 456.01443, 150.66176
       Class: bicycle
       Probabilties: 0.9047381
       Coord:155.9581, 149.96365, 383.83694, 418.94516
       Class: dog
       Probabilties: 0.82268167
       Coord:83.82356, 179.14001, 206.63783, 476.78754
    ```
     
    ![dog_1](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/3307514/20012567/cbb60336-a27d-11e6-93ff-cbc3f09f5c9e.jpg) 
    
    The results returned by the inference call translate into the regions in the image where the model detected objects.
     
    ![dog_2](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/3307514/19171063/91ec2792-8be0-11e6-983c-773bd6868fa8.png)

## Next Steps
For more information about MXNet Java resources, see the following:

> * [Java Inference API](https://mxnet.incubator.apache.org/api/java/infer.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Java Inference API](/api/java/infer.html)
```

Author: Done.

* [Java Inference Examples](https://github.com/apache/incubator-mxnet/tree/java-api/scala-package/examples/src/main/java/org/apache/mxnetexamples/infer/)

> * [MXNet Tutorials Index](http://mxnet.io/tutorials/index.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [MXNet Tutorials Index](/tutorials/index.html)
```

Author: Done.
